FR #956: Provider-calculated split cost allocation (#1394)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/attributes/provider_calculated_split_cost_allocation_handling.md

> # Provider-Calculated Split Cost Allocation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Provider-Calculated Split Cost Allocation Handling
```

The provider-calculated split cost allocation for provider-defined services is a capability that can be offered by providers which allocates (or in some cases provides more granular detail about) a charge to a more granular level. This is accomplished by taking a charge record present in a FOCUS dataset (origin charge) and splitting it into multiple charge records (allocated charges) to reflect the more granular detail, while ensuring the origin charge can be derived from the combination of allocated charges. This feature is used by practitioners to conduct chargebacks and better understand the usage of resources.

## Attribute ID

> ProviderCalculatedSplitCostAllocation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ProviderCalculatedSplitCostAllocationHandling
```

## Attribute Name

> Provider-Calculated Split Cost Allocation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provider-Calculated Split Cost Allocation Handling
```

## Description

Provider-calculated split cost allocation for provider-defined services allows providers to offer more detailed cost and usage information based on a method defined and documented by the provider, including support for allocating costs in cases where the usage of a resource might not match the units the resource is measured in.

## Requirements

> * A FOCUS Cost and Usage dataset MUST include the following columns when the provider supports provider-calculated split cost allocation:

Reviewer: Disagree that this should say `Cost and Usage`.  Attributes are independent of datasets, and we assign them in the dataset-level normative requirements.  I will add a commit that applies this attribute to `Cost and Usage`.
```suggestion
* A FOCUS dataset MUST include the following columns when the provider supports provider-calculated split cost allocation:
```

Reviewer: Please see `dataset.md`, where I added a commit to associate the attribute to the dataset.

  * [AllocatedMethodId](#allocatedmethodid)
  * [AllocatedResourceId](#allocatedresourceid)
  * [AllocatedResourceName](#allocatedresourcename)
  * [AllocatedResourceTags](#allocatedresourcetags)

> * A FOCUS Cost and Usage dataset SHOULD include the following column when the provider supports provider-calculated split cost allocation:

Reviewer: Same deal here.
```suggestion
* A FOCUS dataset SHOULD include the following column when the provider supports provider-calculated split cost allocation:
```

  * [AllocatedMethodDetails](#allocatedmethoddetails)

> * Allocated charge records in the FOCUS Cost and Usage dataset MUST sum up to the origin charge record for all aggregatable metric columns.

Reviewer: And here.
```suggestion
* Allocated charge records in a FOCUS dataset MUST sum up to the origin charge record for all aggregatable metric columns.
```

> * For each allocated charge records in the FOCUS Cost and Usage dataset, all dimension columns and non-aggregatable metric columns MUST match the values of the origin charge record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For each allocated charge records in a FOCUS dataset, all dimension columns and non-aggregatable metric columns MUST match the values of the origin charge record.
```

  * Allocated charge records MUST include the same keys and values present in the [Tags](#tags) column for the origin charge.
* Allocated charge records MUST satisfy normative requirements for all columns.
* The method used for allocating origin charges to create allocated charges MUST be documented by the provider and accessible to practitioners.
  * The Dataset MAY contain records for concepts not related to resource usage, if documented in the split cost allocation method.
  * The Dataset MAY contain records for the unused or unallocated usage of the ResourceId as separate allocated charges, if it aligns to the provider's documented allocation method.

>   * Allocated charge records MAY contain approtioned costs for the unused or unallocated usage of the ResourceId, if it aligns to the provider's documented allocation method.

Reviewer: Why are these lines indented?  According to the guidelines, if we want to indent, then we need to have a grouping statement as the parent.

Perhaps @ijurica can make a suggestion.  :)

Reviewer 2: They're grouped because they refer to the provider's documentation mentioned in the parent statement:
> The method used for allocating origin charges to create allocated charges MUST be documented by the provider and accessible to practitioners.

I'd love to hear @ijurica 's thoughts on this one as well.

Reviewer: Yes -- but we don't have parent normative requirements and child normative requirements anymore (or at least we shouldn't, according to the guidelines).

Reviewer: My suggestion is merely to strike the indentation.  Also, to use the phrase `A FOCUS dataset` instead of `The Dataset`.  Finally, the revision of a typo.

```suggestion
* A FOCUS dataset MAY contain records for concepts not related to resource usage, if documented in the split cost allocation method.
 * A FOCUS dataset MAY contain records for the unused or unallocated usage of the ResourceId as separate allocated charges, if it aligns to the provider's documented allocation method.
* Allocated charge records MAY contain apportioned costs for the unused or unallocated usage of the ResourceId, if it aligns to the provider's documented allocation method.
```
